LAMMPS docs (#80)
eth-cscs/cscs-docs: docs/software/sciapps/lammps.md

```bash
sbatch run_lammps_kokkos.sh
```

You may need to make the `wrapper.sh` script executeable via: `chmod +x wrapper.sh`.

#### LAMMPS + kokkos input file

Below is the input file used in the above script, defining a 3d Lennard-Jones melt.

``` name="lj_kokkos.in"
variable        x index 200
variable        y index 200
variable        z index 200
variable        t index 1000

variable        xx equal 1*$x
variable        yy equal 1*$y
variable        zz equal 1*$z

variable        interval equal $t/2

units           lj
atom_style      atomic/kk

lattice         fcc 0.8442
region          box block 0 ${xx} 0 ${yy} 0 ${zz}
create_box      1 box
create_atoms    1 box
mass            1 1.0

velocity        all create 1.44 87287 loop geom

pair_style      lj/cut/kk 2.5
pair_coeff      1 1 1.0 1.0 2.5

neighbor        0.3 bin
neigh_modify    delay 0 every 20 check no

fix             1 all nve

thermo          ${interval}
thermo_style custom step time  temp press pe ke etotal density
run_style       verlet/kk
run             $t
```

### Running LAMMPS+GPU on the HPC Platform

> To start a job, 2 bash scripts are required:
> 
> ```bash title="run_lammps_gpu.sh"
> #!/bin/bash -l
> #SBATCH --job-name=<JOB_NAME>
> #SBATCH --time=01:00:00
> #SBATCH --nodes=2                                                                        
> #SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=32
> #SBATCH --gres=gpu:4
> #SBATCH --account=<ACCOUNT>                                                                  
> #SBATCH --uenv=<LAMMPS_UENV>:/user-environment
> #SBATCH --view=gpu
> 
> export MPICH_GPU_SUPPORT_ENABLED=1
>  
> ulimit -s unlimited
> 
> srun ./mps-wrapper.sh lmp -sf gpu -pk gpu 4 -in lj.in
> ```
> 
> * Time format: `HH:MM:SS`.
> * For LAMMPS+gpu its often beneficial to use more than 1 MPI rank per GPU. To enable oversubscription of MPI ranks per GPU, you'll need to use the `mps-wrapper.sh` script provided at the following page: [NVIDIA GH200 GPU nodes: multiple ranks per GPU][ref-slurm-gh200-multi-rank-per-gpu]
> * Change `<ACCOUNT>` to your project account name.
> * Change `<LAMMPS_UENV>` to the name (or path) of the LAMMPS uenv you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start a job, 2 bash scripts are required: a [Slurm][ref-slurm] submission script, and a wrapper for [CUDA MPS][ref-slurm-gh200-multi-rank-per-gpu].

```bash title="run_lammps_gpu.sh"
#!/bin/bash -l
#SBATCH --job-name=lammps-gpu
#SBATCH --time=01:00:00
#SBATCH --nodes=2 (1)                                 
#SBATCH --ntasks-per-node=32
#SBATCH --gres=gpu:4
#SBATCH --account=<ACCOUNT> (2)                                                           
#SBATCH --uenv=<LAMMPS_UENV>:/user-environment (3)
#SBATCH --view=gpu (3)

export MPICH_GPU_SUPPORT_ENABLED=1
 
ulimit -s unlimited

srun ./mps-wrapper.sh lmp -sf gpu -pk gpu 4 -in lj.in
```

1. For LAMMPS+gpu it is often beneficial to use more than 1 MPI rank per GPU. To enable oversubscription of MPI ranks per GPU, you'll need to use the `mps-wrapper.sh` script provided at the following section: [multiple ranks per GPU][ref-slurm-gh200-multi-rank-per-gpu].
2. Change `<ACCOUNT>` to your project account name.
3. Change `<LAMMPS_UENV>` to the name (or path) of the LAMMPS uenv you want to use.
4. Enable the `gpu` uenv view.

The `mps-wrapper.sh` scripts is described in the [Multiple ranks per GPU][ref-slurm-gh200-multi-rank-per-gpu] section.
```
